Good afternoon.
Welcome to session 646,
Extending and Securing
Mail Services Using Mac OS X.
I'm Paul Schreiber,
a software engineer on Mac OS X.
Today we're going to talk about securing
your mail server so your messages
can't be read in transit and the
content of the messages can't be read.
We'll talk about extending
the mail server to handle
multiple domains and users.
We'll show you a neat feature
of Tiger's Mail Client,
which helps you pre-configure
mail accounts for your users.
And we're going to explain how the
Mac OS X Server GUI makes this all
easy to use and uses open source
and open standards tools to do so.
So, when it comes to securing
the transport of your mail,
we'll show you how you can use
SSL so the messages can't be read.
We're going to show you how to use
SMIME to sign and encrypt your messages.
We're going to talk about
Postfix and Open Directory and
how they can be used to handle
multiple domains and many users.
We'll talk about using ClamAV and
SpamAssassin to stop spam and viruses.
And again, the Tiger Account Bundles
to help save you time,
money, support calls,
make it easier on your users.
Okay, quick overview of the
technologies involved here.
Well, when it comes to mail,
we provide IMAP and
POP services using Cyrus.
We provide SMTP services using Postfix.
We have HTTPS and
SMIME all using OpenSSL.
As I said, SpamAV, ClamAV,
and SpamAssassin.
And we also include SquirrelMail,
which is a web-based mail client.
So we'll talk very briefly
about internet email.
Just want to make sure you want to
focus on the last part of this diagram.
Often people think of mail as
a mailbox and an email address,
and that's not always true.
It's very much a
many-to-many relationship.
You're going to have to see,
we're going to show you
managing multiple domain names.
You're going to have multiple MX records,
so you could have multiple mail servers.
And you could have many virtual domains.
You could have different
aliases for your users.
And you'll see more about
that later on in the talk.
Okay.
So on to part one,
securing the mail transport.
OK.
Quick overview of security.
Security with regards to the mail server,
like anything else, is a tradeoff.
There's a certain amount of time and
effort and money you're willing to expend
to get a certain amount of benefit.
And in this case, like in any other,
the human factor is
always the weakest link.
So no matter what sort of
password rules you set up or
what grade of encryption you use,
people will always write their
passwords down or they will share
their passwords with other accounts
or they'll trade it for a chocolate
bar and you have to be aware of this.
So there's two aspects to security.
First off, there's physical security.
So you want to make sure that
your server is in a locked room.
You want to make sure it's
locked down to the desk.
You want to make sure
that if you have a G5,
you have a padlock on the back.
When it comes to electronic security,
you want to do things like
enable screen saver locking.
You want to turn on the open firmware
password so people can't bypass it.
You know the boot sequence if
they have access to the machine.
If you have SSH enabled you
can turn off permit root login.
And the last two are we're going
to concentrate on in this talk,
securing the transport
and securing the content.
So, why do we care about securing
our messages in transit?
Well, first off everything is
in the clear by default.
That means when you talk to the mail
server your password can be read,
your user name can be read and all of the
messages going in and out can be read.
Well a few years ago this
wasn't as big a concern because
you had a bunch of desktops,
they're all wired down,
you know they sat on your desk,
they're on a switch
network and it was fine.
But now everyone is using wireless
networks and you see Wi-Fi here at WWDC,
you can go to your friend's house,
you can check your email there,
you can go to a coffee shop and
there are a lot of opportunities
for people to go and recover your
password and read your mail and you
really don't want that to happen.
So talk about authentication methods.
What can you do?
Well, at the very basics,
the thing you can do is you can
put a password on your mail.
And you can have a plain text password.
But this is not a good solution.
It is not adequate.
Now having a password will protect
your email from being read by,
say, your mom,
if you use a good password that's
not your birthday or your dog's
name or something like that.
But what you want to do is you
want to encrypt the password.
So even if someone is listening
in on your network session,
they can't go ahead and
figure out what it is.
So we support several different
authentication methods and encryption
methods in Mac OS X Server.
In this case, we can use MD5, CRAM MD5,
to encrypt the password.
And then that, however,
is not sufficient because if someone
is listening in on your session,
even though they can't get your password,
they can still listen
to or read your email.
And you want to make
sure they can't do that,
either.
So we're going to use SSL encryption.
And in Tiger server,
we make this really easy to do.
So what is SSL?
Well, this is a cross-platform
encryption standard.
It'll work on Mac OS X,
it'll work on Windows,
it'll work on Linux.
This can be used with any mail client.
It's an open standard,
so it's been implemented
by Mac OS X Mail,
by Thunderbird, by Eudora, Outlook,
Entourage, you name it.
This is very hard to break encryption.
It's not ROT 13.
This is industrial strength.
You don't have to worry about
people going and cracking it.
However,
just because you've turned on SSL,
that doesn't mean you're done.
You have the same gotchas you
have with any encryption system.
People can still use a weak
password that someone can guess.
The message could be read in
transit after it reaches your
mail server and goes out on the
internet to its destination.
Of course,
it can also be read on disk on your
server or someone else's server.
And lastly, if you're using self-signed
SSL certificates,
you need to be very aware
of the possibility of a
man in the middle attack,
where someone impersonates
your server and relays all
the traffic back and forth.
So, in terms of SSL certificates.
Well, SSL is Public Key Infrastructure
Encryption Technology.
That means your mail client
has to trust the certificate.
So how does it do that?
Well, Mac OS X,
like every other operating
system that supports SSL,
includes a collection of certificates,
root certificates, that it knows about.
So you could go and you could buy a
certificate that's been signed by one
of these known authorities like Equifax
or VeriSign or Thought or GoDaddy.
And you can spend anywhere from $30 to
$1800 and this would last you a year.
Now if I said, "Okay,
go home and do that." Now,
anyone here would have reservations
with their boss saying,
"Hmm, I don't know if I want to
spend that kind of money."
Okay, I see.
Good.
Now, the good news is you
don't have to do that.
It's really easy in Tiger Server to
create your own self-signed certificate.
Now, this will cost you nothing.
It will require a little bit
of work on the client side,
and we're going to show you how
to do that later in our demo,
so users won't have to approve
the certificate every time.
Now, there's another strategy that's
available for people in large
organizations that have many servers.
Instead of creating your own certificate,
you can become your own certificate
authority and have the mail client
machine recognize that authority,
and that way you can sign as
many certificates as you want,
and they only have to add that one
root certificate to their collection,
to their keychain.
So, now we're going to show
you our first demo.
Andrew's going to come up,
explain how to use Mac OS X Server to
create an SSL certificate,
and then the client and how to use it.
Thank you, Paul.
My name is Andrew Moon,
and over the next 10 minutes,
I'm going to be presenting a couple
of demonstrations on how to enhance
the security of your mail service
using self-signed SSL certificates.
It's going to be two parts.
First, we're going to cover the
server-side configuration,
and then we'll get to the client side.
TigerServer has an enhanced Server Admin
application that lets you create and
manage self-signed SSL certificates.
Let's take a look at that now.
Let's bring up Server Admin.
And here in the Computers
and Services pane,
we're going to select the
server we want to manage.
In this case, it's demo646.local.
Then we come over here to the
Settings button and the Certificates tab.
Now you see that there's
this default certificate here
that comes out of the box.
We could use this with
a little bit of editing,
but for the purposes
of this demonstration,
let's create a brand new one.
So click on the Plus.
Now the common name is gonna
be the most important field,
and you want that to be the fully
qualified host name by which your
mail server is known and accessed.
So in this case it's
gonna be demo646.local.
And I'll just briefly fill
in these other fields.
And this has a default
expiration period of one year.
We'll leave the private
key size at 1024 bits.
And we're gonna leave the private
key passphrase blank so that the
SSL certificate can continue to
be used by the mail server even
across unattended reboot situations.
So I filled out this form.
Let's click Save.
And if we go back to the list,
there's the self-signed
certificate that we just created.
Now let's tell the mail servers
how to make use of that.
So let's come over here to the
mail service of our server.
Click on the Settings button.
Over here to the Advanced tab
and the Security sub-tab.
Now there are two sections here.
The first part is authentication
for the various mail protocols.
Now login, plain,
and clear are all unencrypted
authentication methods.
So let's make sure those are unchecked.
Kerberos is typically more
appropriate for larger
environments with many systems,
so for this single system demo,
let's choose CRAM MD5
for both SMTP and IMAP,
and APOP for POP.
Next,
let's come down here to the SSL section,
where we can control the
SSL configuration for
SMTP as well as IMAP and POP.
So this first pull-down lets
us choose whether to disable,
use, or require SSL.
So for SMTP, let's choose Use.
So that means if both parties,
if both the server and
the client support SSL,
that SSL will actually be used.
Now the reason we're doing Use and
not Require here is that most mail
servers on the Internet are not
actually configured to send mail
to other mail servers using SSL.
So we're going to probably have
to back off from SSL for that.
However, you may have, say,
traveling users who are out on the road
on other ISPs who want to relay mail
through your organization's mail servers.
And for that, we can use SSL so that they
can use authenticated SMTP over
SSL to your mail server.
So we'll select Use.
Then this second pull-down lets
us choose the certificate we want
to use with the mail service.
Because we just created that
certificate for demo646.local,
it's available here on
this pull-down list.
So let's go ahead and pick that.
Now for IMAP and POP,
let's go ahead and choose Require.
Most or all of the major mail
clients available today can connect
to IMAP and POP servers via SSL.
So that should be a good choice.
Then let's choose the
same certificate here.
And we're done, so we can click Save.
And that should be it
for the server side.
So let's now move on to
client side configuration.
And how to connect via SSL to a server
that has a self-signed SSL certificate.
So let me fast user switch over to a user
I've already created for this purpose.
And let's bring up the mail application.
So this is the first time we're bringing
up the mail application for this user.
So it's gonna present me with
the new account setup assistant.
So let's just go through that.
Click Continue.
Let's go ahead and
create an IMAP account.
The incoming mail server
is going to be our server,
and we're going to provide our
credentials to authenticate with.
Uh-oh, we got an error message here.
So what's going on is that we decided
to use a self-signed SSL certificate.
Now, Paul mentioned a few
caveats with that choice,
and this is actually one of them.
So the mail application is not
trusting our server by default,
and that's why it's throwing
up this error message.
So since we know what's
actually going on here,
let's click Continue for now,
and we're going to address this
issue in just a few moments.
Let's tell this account
configuration to use SSL.
Now the authentication method,
you'll recall that we chose
CRAM MD5 for IMAP and SMTP,
and here that corresponds to the
MD5 challenge response choice.
Choose that and click Continue.
Now let's fill out the
outgoing mail server.
Also use authentication.
We don't have a problem here since it
doesn't have to connect via SSL to SMTP.
Now we're done with that.
I'm actually aware of some of
what's new in the mail application,
so we'll skip that.
Let's go ahead and check our mail.
And we get another error
dialog that gets thrown up.
So let me point you to the most important
part of this message is right here.
The root certificate for this
server could not be verified.
And that's again because we chose to
use a self-signed SSL certificate.
Now this would be a real problem
if we continue to get this message
every time we wanna connect
to our server and check mail.
So we need to figure out some way
to tell the OS or tell the mail
application to trust this server.
The way we do that is we're gonna
is we can click on the
show certificate button.
Let's check on the details
to make sure that this is the
server we want to connect to.
And just briefly here,
one thing we can check
is the common name.
It's matching the server
that we want to connect to,
demo646.local.
We're going to take this certificate and
we're going to drag it over to desktop.
Once on the desktop,
we can double-click on it,
and that will bring up
the Keychain application,
which hopefully asks us if we
want to add it to our Keychain.
We do, however, we want to add it to a
special system-level Keychain,
and that happens to be
called X.509 Anchors.
And it's available on
this pull-down list,
so let's go ahead and select that.
And then let's click OK.
Now because that's a special
system-level keychain,
we need to authenticate with
our administrator privileges.
Let's go ahead and do that.
And the certificate gets added.
And then let's click OK.
Now because that's a special
system-level keychain,
we need to authenticate with
our administrator privileges.
Let's go ahead and do that.
And the certificate gets added.
And there it is.
So there's the certificate
we just imported.
Let's go ahead and put away
that Keychain Access application
now that we're done with it.
Let's continue onward.
And now, if I restart mail,
That error dialogue should
not come up anymore,
so let's go ahead and
check our mail again.
And we don't actually
have additional new mail,
so we're connecting to our server,
and you'll notice that the
error dialogue has not come up.
And so that's all we have to do.
That's client-side configuration,
and now the server certificate is saved.
And I'm going to turn
this back over to Paul.
Thank you very much Andrew.
Slides please.
Okay, so to review what did we
have to do to enable SSL?
On the server side we did two things.
First of all,
we created an SSL certificate
and second of all,
we enabled it for the
SMTP and IMAP services.
On the client side we did two things.
We configured the mail application
to use SSL and then we added the
certificate to keychain access
in the X.509 anchors keychain.
Now, this is all new on Tiger Server.
If you're still using Mac OS X Panther,
you need to go to Terminal
and enter a bunch of commands
to create the certificate.
There's a document describing how to do
this on the developer.apple.com website,
the URL of which you can see right here.
It's called Creatinging
Secure Transactions on
Mac OS X Server Using SSL.
Okay, now we're on to the
second part of our talk,
Securing Message Content.
Sometimes SSL is not enough.
You may have messages which are
very confidential and you want
to make sure that not only can
they not be read in transit,
but you want to make sure they
can't be read on the disk.
Perhaps you don't trust the system
administrator in this case or
all the system administrators
in between you and your recipient.
This is perhaps other people
have physical access to your
machine and you want to make sure
that they can't read the message.
So, we're going to... There are many
different ways you can encrypt messages.
You can use something like
PGP or OpenPGP or GPG.
We're going to talk about
using SMIME because this
is built into Mac OS X.
SMIME will let you do two things.
First of all,
it will let you sign messages.
And second of all,
it will let you encrypt the messages.
So, let's go back to our diagram
about authentication methods.
As we started out with just
using a plain text password.
And as we said before,
this is not an adequate method
for protecting your data.
Then,
we moved on to encrypting the password.
And this will help keep out, say,
you know, your nosy neighbors who happen
to be sharing your network.
If we go and we use SSL to
encrypt the entire session,
this will keep out some script kiddies
who are breaking into the network.
And if we use S-MIME,
this will protect the message
content from industrial
spies or foreign governments.
So, what are the benefits of using SMOT?
Well, you can ensure,
when you sign a message,
you can ensure that the message,
once it's received,
has not been modified in transit.
Second of all,
you have to be aware that this doesn't
make a claim about the human or
the computer that sent the message,
so you can't guarantee that the
message is from who it says it's from.
When it comes to encryption,
it prevents the messages from
being read in transit and on disk.
So let's take a look at how
you go ahead and use S-MOD.
Well, Mac OS X Mail supports
this right out of the box.
And like in the case of SSL,
you need to get certificates.
Now, you can sign messages right away,
and you can encrypt messages.
In order to do that, you need to have the
other person's public key.
This is also PKI.
So,
how do you get someone else's public key?
Well, there's two ways you can do it.
First of all, you can receive a signed
message from them.
If you receive a signed message,
that will include enough information for
mail to reply and encrypt the message.
The other method is to retrieve
this information from a server.
Many directory services servers,
such as LDAP,
provide an option to store all
of the public keys from people
in your organization on them.
And that way,
you can look it up there and not
need to receive a message from
someone before you send them one.
So, how do we get an S/MIME certificate?
Well, in this case,
we can go to a third-party vendor.
We can go to VeriSign
and we can pay them $20.
But the good news is,
you can get a free certificate from THOT,
and that will automatically
be recognized as valid.
Now, THOT's S/MIME certificates use
something called their Web of Trust.
And when you get a certificate initially,
it says "THOT free mail member"
instead of your real name.
In order for your name to
appear on the certificate,
you have to find people who are
considered notaries by THOT to assert
that you are who you say you are.
And once you find enough of those,
your certificate will bear your name.
Alternatively,
if you're a large organization,
you can consider becoming your own
certificate authority for SMIME.
And that way you can validate everyone's
certificates in your organization.
Now when you start using SMIME,
you're going to see a
bunch of files around.
There are two different file
types you need to worry about.
The first type of file is a P7 file.
That contains the certificate itself.
When you use Safari to download
a certificate from Thought,
you will see a .exe file.
This is actually a P7 file.
So if you're going to pass this around,
you're going to need to
rename it before you do so.
In order to use Safari to obtain
a certificate from Thought,
you need to make sure you're
using Mac OS 10.3.4 or better.
If you use a Mozilla-based browser,
such as Firefox,
Now there's a caveat.
You have to be careful when you're
managing these certificates.
Because certificates expire,
at the end of the year,
you'll see in your keychain red Xs
saying the certificate has expired.
Don't delete those, because if you do,
you won't be able to read
encrypted messages that person has
sent you with that certificate.
The second thing you have to be
aware of is if you are deleting
your own old certificates,
don't delete just the certificate
and leave the key around.
Because mail,
when it sends a message out,
will include all of your keys,
and when the other person replies,
they could choose the key to
which you no longer have the
corresponding certificate.
That means you won't be able to read
the encrypted message they send you.
So, what does it look like in the
mail client when you do this?
Well,
you can sign a message and in the bottom
right-hand portion of the header you
check a checkmark and it looks like this.
If you want to encrypt a message,
there's a padlock.
Same place right beside the checkmark.
And when you check the padlock,
it becomes locked.
If you choose to both sign
and encrypt a message,
you'll check both the checkmark and the
padlock and they will both be enabled.
What happens when you receive
a signed or encrypted message?
Well, when you receive a signed message
at the bottom of the header,
the checkmark will appear and
the word "signed" will appear.
If you receive an encrypted message,
in this case you'll see a lock icon
and the word "encrypted". And lastly,
if you receive a message that's
both signed and encrypted,
you'll see the lock
icon and the checkmark.
So this is what happens
when things go right.
Well, what happens when things go wrong?
Well, if mail receives an SMI message
that's been signed and it can't
verify the message signature,
it will warn you about that,
putting a big yellow
bar above the message.
So what can cause this?
Well, two things.
First off,
the message content could be modified
by someone who is purposely--some
adversary who's trying to modify
the content of the message,
you know, to fool you, you know,
if you get a message from
your boss or something.
And the other thing is if you resend
a message with your signature,
you will see that as well.
And in that case, don't worry,
you can safely ignore the message.
And what about encrypted messages?
What happens when an error occurs?
Well, in this case,
you won't be able to see the
message at all and you'll see a
similar looking error with a lock
saying "unable to decrypt message".
This could happen because the
message was modified in transit or it
could happen because you don't have
the right certificate and key pair,
you need the other person's public key.
Now, we're on to the third
section of our talk.
This is about managing multiple domains.
If you're an ISP or you handle
multiple domains for your company,
what do you do with that?
Well, there are four cases
we're going to cover.
First off, you have the easy case
where you have one domain.
Second case is where you have
multiple domains with one namespace,
and we call this virtual domains.
The third case is virtual hosting,
where you have a bunch of domains
and a bunch of different namespaces.
This is very common if you're
an internet provider or you
have a shared co-located server.
And lastly, we'll cover some advanced
virtual hosting techniques.
So, when you're using Mac OS X Server,
there are two ways to configure
virtual hosting and virtual domains.
First off,
you can use the Mac OS X GUI using
Server Admin and Workgroup Manager,
and this will store the
information in Open Directory.
The second method is using
the Postfix configuration file
that you see in Etsy Postfix.
Let's take a look at what
happens when you have one domain.
Well, in this case you don't have
to do anything special.
You create a bunch of user accounts,
you set up the host or use that domain,
and each user account will correspond to
the left-hand side of an email address.
Now, what about virtual domains?
Well,
in this case you have a shared namespace.
This is very useful if your
company has multiple names,
if you've registered
variations on the name,
you have a misspelling you've registered,
and you want those all to receive email.
What you can do is you create a
virtual domain in Mac OS X Server.
This acts like an alias.
And so we have, in our example,
we have a company, Banana Software,
and they've registered
bananasoftware.ca and banana-inc.ca,
and in both cases, they receive mail.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so this time we're going to do the
Mac OS X configuration of the virtual
hosting slide that Paul showed us.
So let's work through that slide and
configure what he showed us as possible.
Let's go ahead and actually do that.
So let's bring up the
server admin application.
And the way we're going to do that
is we're going to do part of the
administration with server admin
to tell it about the virtual hosts,
and then we're going to bring up
workgroup manager to alter user records.
So first server admin, mail service,
settings, advanced tab,
and this time we want
the hosting sub-tab.
We're going to check the box
to enable virtual hosting,
which will then allow us
to add our virtual hosts.
The first one is Bananasoftware.ca.
And the second one is
going to be Starfruit.ca.
Let's go ahead and save that.
That's all we need to
do with Server Admin.
Now let's bring up the Workgroup Manager.
So we saw that we had two people,
Joe and Joe Bob,
and they both want Joe at
their domain names.
So the way we do that is we look at
their user records and we're going
to add the email address we want to
control into the short names field.
So we're going to come
to this short name field,
and we're going to go underneath the
last entry that is already there.
We're going to double click on it,
and that allows us to edit this field.
So we're going to add
joe@bananasoftware.ca.
We'll go ahead and save that user record.
and Joe Bob also wanted Joe,
but he wanted that at joe@starfruit.ca.
and Andrew So now we've actually gone
through and that's all it takes to
actually configure the scenario presented
in virtual hosting in Paul's slide.
So now we have email sent to
Joe@bananasoftware.ca going to this
person Joe and we have the email address
Joe@starfruit.ca mail to that email
address going to Joe Bob and that's
all we have to do to do virtual hosting.
Now I'm going to turn
it back over to Paul.
Thank you very much, Andrew.
So to summarize,
what do we have to do to set
up virtual hosting on Mac OS X?
First off, we use a Work Group Manager.
The short name field contains
the email address for the
other domain we want to use.
And the advantage of using the
Open Directory method is that it
keeps all of the configuration
information in one place.
However, there's some things that you
can't do with Open Directory.
And we're going to talk about a few
advanced virtual hosting techniques
that are possible with PostFix.
So the first technique is having one
email address go to multiple people.
This is very useful if you have a
generic email address like contact,
feedback, or info at your domain name.
As you can see in the slide,
we have this email address
going to three of our users.
The second technique you can do is
create a catch-all email address.
This means that any email address
that's not explicitly specified in your
domain will go to this user's mailbox.
And lastly,
we can provide an email address
that exists without a user account.
So in this case,
we can forward julie@bananasoftware.ca
to her mac.com account.
There are two types of virtual
domains that you need to be aware of.
Now the first case is
this old sendmail style.
If you were using Mac OS X Server Jaguar
that had sendmail,
10.3 and later have Postfix.
Postfix, however,
has a sendmail compatibility mode.
If you use the default configuration,
you don't need to worry about this.
However, if you're creating this
from scratch or by hand,
you need to pay attention.
When you use sendmail
style virtual domains,
that means everything on the
left-hand side of an email address
will go to that user account,
even if it hasn't been
explicitly specified.
In this case, we have two customers,
Joe and Jane,
and Joe has Bananasoftware.ca,
and Jane has Guava.ca.
However, Joe@Guava.ca is not a
valid email address,
and neither is Jane@Bananasoftware.ca.
With sendmail style virtual hosting,
this email address will continue
to receive email and will
go into their mail accounts.
Any mail sent to this
address is likely to be spam,
and we don't want that to happen.
So if we use post-fixed-style
virtual domains,
this isn't a problem,
because with a post-fixed-style
virtual domain,
only email addresses that are
explicitly specified in the virtual
user table will be allowed through.
Let's summarize the virtual
hosting features we talked about.
Number one, you can have an email address
that will go to multiple people.
They can be a combination of
local users and remote users.
You can have an email address that exists
without a corresponding user account.
You can think of this as an alias
or call forwarding for email.
You can provide a
catch-all email address,
which will receive all email not
explicitly specified for that domain.
And finally, you can mitigate dictionary
attacks by spammers.
By using post-fixed-style
virtual hosting,
only email addresses that are explicitly
defined will allow email to go through.
Now, Andrew is going to demonstrate how
to use the post-fixed configuration
file to set up some of the advanced
virtual hosting techniques we described.
Thank you, Paul.
So for this demo,
we're going to go and set up
the advanced virtual hosting
slide that Paul just described.
And the way we're going to do that is
we're going to go a little beyond what
the Apple Server GUI tools provide
and give a little exposure to the
underlying text configuration files.
So let's put these apps away.
So you'll see that the virtual
hosting configuration is still there.
That's important.
And let's bring up the
terminal application.
and change directory to
the /etc/postfix directory.
This is the directory that stores
all the postfix configuration files.
And let's start by editing
the main one called main.cf.
I'm going to do that with vim.
And I need to do that
with rootly privileges,
so I'm going to preface this
command with the sudo command,
as I've done on this command line.
Let's go to the end of the file,
and we're going to add a line.
It's called Virtual Alias Maps.
Now, this is the parameter that tells
Postfix where to look for this
virtual hosting information.
Let's go ahead and set that
to Etsy Postfix Virtual.
Now the hash just tells Postfix
what kind of file or how the
storage is laid out in that file.
Many of the Postfix configuration
files are going to be the hash type.
And for this demo, that's all we need,
so let's go ahead and
write out that file.
Next, let's edit that virtual file.
So this file already has a bunch
of comments and information
there that we can look at.
I'm going to jump to the end of the file.
And let's go ahead and work
through the slide that Paul had.
So we had info@bananasoftware.ca
and we wanted that to go to Joe,
Joe Bob, and Jane.
Next, we had the catch-all email address.
So any other email address that's not
already specified at Banana Software.
Next, we had the catch-all email address.
So any other email address that's not
already specified at Banana Software.
Julie@bananasoftware.ca
Julie@mac.com Julie@bananasoftware.ca
Now that Postfix,
now that we've told Postfix
about this new table,
we also need to have Postfix
reload its configuration files.
And the way we do that is with
the Postfix reload command.
And we get a message back saying that the
Postfix Mail System has been refreshed.
So now all of our changes are in effect.
And so now we've configured the
slide that Paul laid out in the
Advanced Virtual Hosting slide.
I'll turn it back over to Paul now.
Thank you very much, Andrew.
Let's do a quick recap of what
we had to do to configure the
post-fix configuration file.
First off,
we have to do all these commands as root.
We need to edit the main
configuration file and enable
the virtual-alias-maps command.
Next, we need to edit the virtual file
itself and define the email address
configuration that we'd like.
Once we've updated the map,
we run the post-map command to create
the hash that post-fix will use.
And finally,
we reload the post-fix configuration
file using the post-fix reload command.
Now, there are two things about using
post-fix versus open directory.
First of all,
the post-fixed configuration
files are accessible by
standard UNIX tools like VI,
Emacs, and grep.
And the second advantage to this
method is that the post-fixed
configuration file is compatible with
any other post-fixed configuration
file on any other UNIX flavor
that you may happen to be running.
Finally, let's move on to stopping
spam and viruses.
Unwanted email is inundating your server.
There are two ways we provide
to stop it in Mac OS X's server.
First of all, we can help you stop spam.
There are many different strategies
you can employ to stop spam.
You can use real time
black hole lists or RBLs.
You can use Spam Assassin,
which is a server side filtering tool.
You could employ a
challenge response system,
which means that everyone who sends
mail to one of your users has to fill
out a form to prove they're human.
You could use a white listing technique,
where you only accept mail
from senders that you've
previously explicitly validated.
You could also employ
client side filtering,
like Mac OS X's junk mail filter.
We're going to talk about RBLs,
and we're going to talk
about Spam Assassin.
When it comes to viruses and worms,
you say, well, Mac users aren't really
affected by this stuff.
You know, why should we care?
Well, first of all,
not all of us have the luxury of
working in an all Mac environment.
All right.
These are annoying, they waste bandwidth,
and you should really be a
good internet citizen and stop
them from propagating further.
Spammers will often explicitly
target the backup MX because they
know it's often less protected.
So, what about Real-Time Blackhole Lists?
What can they do for you?
Well, the upside is by enabling them,
there's a dramatic decrease in
the amount of spam you receive.
It just gets stopped before it's
delivered to your users' mailboxes.
The downside to this is
they're often false positives.
These lists are maintained by third
parties over whom you don't have control,
and it's often difficult to get on a list
if you've been put on one inadvertently.
Sometimes there are political
arguments over who should be
on a list or who shouldn't.
With those caveats said,
they're still extremely helpful.
The first item you see on
the list here is rbls.org.
This isn't an RBL itself,
but it's actually a real-time check
which you can enter an IP address into,
and it will tell you how many RBLs are
blocking this particular IP address.
The rfcignorant.org RBL will
block mail from servers who
aren't configured properly.
This means they aren't accepting
mail for postmaster or abuse,
or they don't have reverse DNS setup.
Spamhouse.org, ORDB.org, NJABL.org,
Spamcop.net,
or some other servers you can use.
When we get to the end of the slides,
you'll see a URL for a site that lists
dozens of different blackhole lists,
and you can consider using these
for your organization depending
on which you feel are appropriate.
Now,
spam assassin is a server-side filter,
and that occurs after
you've received the mail.
So if it hasn't been blocked
by your server using an RBL,
spam assassin takes a look at it.
And it employs a bunch
of different filters.
These filters will look at
the content of the message.
They'll look at the message headers.
They'll decide, does this match my rules?
And any time it matches a rule,
it's assigned a score.
If the score exceeds a certain threshold,
that message gets marked as spam.
If the message is marked as spam,
you can configure what to do with it,
whether you want to keep the message,
whether you want to delete the message,
or bounce the message.
In addition to filtering messages based
on their content and the message body,
SpamAssassin can use RBLs and assign
an additional score if a message is
sent from a server that's in an RBL.
It can employ Bayesian filtering,
which analyzes the message content,
similar to the way
junk mail filter works.
Well, what about viruses?
Well, when it comes to viruses,
Tiger includes ClamAV,
which is an open-source anti-virus tool.
It will scan the email for viruses,
and once it's received,
once it's found a virus,
it has a few options
what it can do with it.
It can delete the message right away,
it can quarantine it so you can check
if it really is a virus-infected email,
and it can bounce the message.
Now, bouncing the message
is a really bad idea.
Most of the Windows viruses
and worms that are out there
will forge both the from,
header, and the return address.
So if you choose to bounce messages,
you'll be sending them back to some
innocent third party who will be
inundated with bounce messages and
wondering why they're getting them.
You also have a few notification
options where you can notify the
user who received the message or you,
the system administrator,
one of these messages is received.
So now Andrew will demonstrate how
to configure Mac OS X Server to
use SpamAssassin in ClamAV.
Thanks, Paul.
So this is the last session of the
day and I'm getting a little antsy
to get out of here for the weekend,
so I think I'm just going to
try to race through this demo
as fast as I possibly can.
So let's bring up
Server Admin Application.
Let's bring up the Filters tab here.
Let's check the box to
turn on SpamAssassin.
Check the box to turn on ClamAV.
Check the box to have my virus
database definitions updated.
Click Save, and I think I'll hand
it over back to Paul.
Wow, Andrew, that was really quick.
Is there anything else you can tell us?
Well, actually, okay.
All right.
Good.
So let's go back and take a
closer look at some of these
other options in the GUI.
So Paul talked about the threshold
that has to be met by SpamAssassin.
So this is a control for that.
So least, moderate, and most.
So if you leave it on least,
even mildly suspicious mail
will get marked as junk.
And if you have it set on most,
it will take many different
criteria in order for a
message to get marked as junk.
Accepted languages.
Now SpamAssassin has some facility
to try to detect what language a
given email message is written in.
And so this selection lets you control
and choose those languages that
you do not want to be considered a
potential characteristic of junk mail.
Similarly with Locales,
SpamAssassin has some knowledge of
what character sets are associated
with given country codes.
So again,
this selector lets you choose those
country codes that you do not want
to be considered as a potential
characteristic of junk mail.
Then this is some of that notification
option that Paul was mentioning.
Once the message is
identified as junk mail,
you can choose to bounce,
not such a great idea usually, to delete,
deliver, or to redirect.
Let's leave it undelivered,
and you can see that there
are some additional options,
such as editing the
subject line automatically.
Keep in mind that SMAM Assassin already
adds its own header,
so you might want to
look at that instead.
Or you can choose to encapsulate the
mail as an attachment to a given message.
Then this is some of that notification
option that Paul was mentioning.
Once the message is
identified as junk mail,
you can choose to bounce,
not such a great idea usually, to delete,
deliver, or to redirect.
Let's leave it undelivered,
and you can see that there
are some additional options,
such as editing the
subject line automatically.
Keep in mind that SMAM Assassin already
adds its own header,
so you might want to
look at that instead.
Or you can choose to encapsulate the
mail as an attachment to a given message.
And I think that's it for this final
demo on Spam Assassin and ClamAV,
and I'll turn over the rest
of the session to Paul.
Thank you very much, Andrew.
So Mac OS X Server really makes it
easy to stop spam and virus-infected
emails from getting to your mail server.
Now onto the last portion of our talk.
You've heard there are over
200 new features in Tiger.
Well, this is one you probably
haven't heard about.
It's Mail Account Bundles.
What are Mail Account Bundles?
They let you easily extend mail setup
assistant for your organization.
You can put custom panels in that will
reduce the number of steps your users
have to go through and the amount
of information they have to enter.
This makes it really easy for them
to configure their account when they
don't have to know the server or how
to turn on SSL or anything like that.
It's going to mean fewer calls for you
and your support desk and fewer hassles.
They're much less likely
to make a mistake.
So what kind of things can you
configure with Mail Account Bundles?
Well, you can configure the
name of the account,
the server name,
the type of authentication
such as Kerberos or MD5.
You can choose the domain
name for the email address.
You can specify if the email address
has to match the name of the account.
You can choose whether SSL is
enabled or required and whether
users are allowed to change this.
You can say,
Aha, what if you're stuck and
you need more information?
I'm going to give you a clickable
URL which points to a web page
on say your company's internet,
which will have even more information.
And finally, these Mail Account Bundles
are also localizable.
So if your organization provides mail
services to users who speak different
languages or are in different countries,
you can use one Mail Account Bundle
and give it to everyone,
and it will provide the
information in their language.
So what does this look like?
Well, take a look at the screenshot here.
In this Mail Account Setup
Wizard Assistant,
we have Banana Software,
our fictional company.
And their logo appears here.
And in this case,
you can see the username
has been filled in as Joe,
and appbananasoftware.ca
has already been specified.
That means when the user
gets to the next screen,
they don't have to fill
that information in.
You can also let the email
address be unrestricted.
So if your organization is large
and you have multiple people.
You can also let them
fill in the email address.
And you can also let them
And you can see here,
this field's not editable,
which means the users can't
accidentally mistype the mail server
and start getting wrong password
or server not found error messages.
So how do you create one of these?
Well, we provide one for .mac.
If you take a look in
/library/mail/accounttypes,
you'll find one.
Take that bundle and make a copy.
Inside there,
you'll find a TIFF file containing
the .mac globe logo and a plist
called mailaccounts.plist.
This is a file you need to edit.
It has a bunch of unique IDs for both
the sending and receiving accounts.
You need to create your own.
To do this,
use the UUID Gen Command Line tool.
Once you're finished editing the plist,
you save it.
You can provide a graphic such
as your organization's logo.
And then to test it,
stick it in your library folder.
And this can go in /library,
tilde/library, or /network/library,
whatever you feel is most appropriate.
If you want to,
you can go ahead and provide an
installer for your users that
will put this in the right place.
If you preconfigure systems for
them before you deploy them,
go ahead and include
this as one of the files.
So, what did we learn today?
Well, in summary, we've talked about how
you can secure your mail.
So you can go home at the end of
the session and you can disable
plain text passwords on your server.
Make sure they can't be read in transit.
You can go and you can enable SSL,
so your entire session is secure.
You can get SMIME and you can start
signing and encrypting your mail.
You'll be able to filter your mail.
You can use RBLs to block spam
before it reaches the server.
You can use SpamAssassin to minimize the
amount of spam that reaches your users'
mailboxes even after it's accepted.
You can use ClamAV to stop virus-infected
emails from getting to your users.
And finally,
you can go and deploy a mail account
bundle so when your users have
to configure their mail client,
they have much less work to do.
So if you need any more information,
the WWDC website contains documentation,
resources, sample code.
For those of you watching
at home or on the DVD,
there are a few other sessions
you might find interesting.
The Mac OS X Server Overview,
Moving to Tiger Server from Windows,
Upgrading to Tiger Server,
Managing Clients in the Enterprise,
and Enterprise Messaging Solutions.
Now, we'll turn it over to
Jason Anthony Guy who
will manage the Q&A.